---
yip: <to be assigned>
title: <YIP title>
status: WIP
author: <a list of the author's or authors' name(s) and/or username(s), or name(s) and email(s), e.g. (use with the parentheses or triangular brackets): FirstName LastName (@GitHubUsername), FirstName LastName <foo@bar.com>, FirstName (@GitHubUsername) and GitHubUsername (@GitHubUsername)>
discussions-to: <Create a new thread on https://gov.yearn.finance/ and drop the link here>

created: <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
requires (*optional): <YIP number(s)>
implementation (*optional): <Added if YIP passes>
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged YIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new YIPs. Note that an YIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your YIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `yip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

This is the suggested template for new YIPs. Note that an YIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your YIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `yip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.

## Simple Summary
<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->
Replace the 2% management fees on v2 vaults with a NAV fee to eliminate incentives to engage in parasitic behavior in the future.

## Abstract
<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the YIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the YIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->
The new v2 vault compensation structure is the standard 2% management fee and 20% performance fee of the hedge fund industry, and using this structure will almost certainly be bad for Yearn. The danger is in the management fee, and the incentives to engage in parasitic behavior it creates. This danger can be eliminated by replacing the management fee with a variable operating expenses fee that decreases as TVL grows. We propose replacing the management fee with this variable operating expenses fee.

## Motivation
<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the YIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the YIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is innaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the YIP will address the issue!-->
The new v2 vault compensation structure is the standard 2% management fee and 20% performance fee of the hedge fund industry, and this structure has caused immense damage to hedge fund customers over the last few decade. A chief cause of this harm is the management fee and the incentives it creates. Management fees were originally instituted to pay for the upfront and ongoing expenses of running a fund, which are significant. The problem is that as assets under management (AUM) grow, general partners at funds increasingly prioritise the safe income of the management fee over the performance fee (also called ‘carry’) generated by producing market beating returns. 

To maintain AUM despite loss of performance, GPs deflect from performance failures and aggressively market the fund to keep the management fees coming as long as possible. This refocus on management fees destroy customer value, because the value of a fund is entirely in its generating market beating returns (relative to a passive, low-cost index). The financial benefit of GPs addicted to management fees comes directly at the expense of customers.

Yearn faces the same risks as the v2 vaults grow in TVL. As Yearn receives management fees to cover lifestyle expenses, they are incentivised to maximise the size and longevity of those management fees over aggressive pursuit of performance. Safe money today is more valuable than risky money tomorrow that takes work.

Moreover, the purpose of management fees is to cover operational expenses while strategists build high performing strategies, and management fees are not the best way to do that. A net asset value (NAV) fee based on ongoing operating expenses plus a margin of safety would suffice to cover operational expenses while focusing Yearn entirely on creating value for users through high performance strategies. It would also lead to higher TVL due to the minimal cost to new users.


## Specification
<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview
<!--This is a high level overview of *how* the YIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->
YIPX will be implemented by changing the management fee to a NAV fee of X (which is operating expensesx2), and which is adjusted on a (weekly or monthly) basis by the compensation committee.

### Rationale
<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->
Recurring fees to cover operating expenses are appropriate sacrifices for users to make, but they should be kept as low as possible to focus Yearn entirely on driving performance. With that in mind, the ideal fee is one that accounts for ongoing expenses with a margin of safety to account for non-recurring and unexpected expenses. Fees should be calculated on a (weekly or monthly) basis to ensure they are kept as low as possible while minimising administrative work for the compensation committee. After the fee has been calculated, it should be converted into a percent of NAV manually so that there are minimal changes to code.

It is expected that the NAV fee as a percentage of TVL will drop significantly as TVL scale, and this will keep Yearn entirely focused on delivering value to users through high performance strategies.

### Technical Specification
<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces yEarn Finance currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->
The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces yEarn Finance currently exposes or the creations of new ones.

### Test Cases
<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for YIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->
Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for YIPs but can be included with the implementation.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
